---
title: ✏️ Corel Draw
link: /docs/corel-draw/
---

CorelDraw is a Windows environment application for graphic design which uses
vectors to represent shapes instead of bitmaps. It was created in 1989 and has
been evolving through 21 versions to this day. The current version is CorelDraw
2019, and it includes a bitmap editing application, Corel Photopaint, a very
complete program to work with photos or any other bitmap image, as well as some
other apps. Corel 2019 was released, for the very first time, for Apple MacOS as
well as for Windows. Vectors: digital images can be stored as grids of colored
points (pixels) known as bitmaps, so even the best quality picture, when you
expand it or take a very close look, will show these colored pixels and smooth
lines will become saw lines that look like stairs. Vectors do not use bitmaps,
but mathematical functions to represent shapes. A function can work with very
small numbers or very big numbers all the same and will always be precise, so
you can look at a vector image from a distance or very close and it will always
look perfect, no pixels, smooth lines all the time, and has the advantage of
requiring far less memory to be stored than bitmaps.

Another good point for vectors is that images can be translated into bitmaps
with as much quality as needed, while the inverse conversion is far less
efficient and will produce worse results. CorelDraw has become a very
professional tool for the graphic designer, including a huge variety of working
alternatives like basic shape drawing (lines, squares, circles and ovals,
polygons, stars, spirals, grids, curves), shape editing (weld, trim, intersect
shapes), text tool, text into curves conversion, node editing, interactive fills
(flat color fill, gradient fill, pattern fill, bitmap fill), translucent shadows
and glows, translucent shapes, and basic bitmap editing. CorelDraw has the
capability to manage bitmaps together with text and vectors to produce complex
compositions like magazine pages, so it's a great alternative for publishing
composition, multi-page files, bitmap tracing, effects like perspective or shape
distorting, and dozens of other tools.

The user interface of CorelDraw is very intuitive and friendly, and digitizing
tablets can be used with the program, allowing the designers to produce artistic
and lively images. To help users, there is a wide support net which includes
blogs, videos, tutorials and chat communities. These are some links:

https://www.coreldraw.com/en/

https://community.coreldraw.com

https://blog.corel.com

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-e2Awp0H1mtwIllJqZw45g

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TpbFHCEvnpY
