# Anglo-Nepalese War

The Anglo-Nepalese War (1 November 1814 – 4 March 1816), also known as the
Gorkha War, was fought between the Gorkhali army of the Kingdom of Nepal
(present-day Nepal) and the British forces of the East India Company (EIC,
present-day India). Both sides had ambitious expansion plans for the mountainous
north of the Indian subcontinent. The war ended with the signing of the Treaty
of Sugauli in 1816 AD, which ceded some Nepalese controlled territory to the
EIC.

![Bhakti Thapa (yellow) leading Nepalese Gorkhali Army against British forces](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/c/c6/Anglo-Nepal_war.jpg)

## Historical Background

The Shah era of Nepal began with the Gorkha king Prithvi Narayan Shah invading
Kathmandu valley, which consisted of the capital of the Malla confederacy. Until
that time only the Kathmandu valley was referred to as Nepal. The confederacy
requested help from the East India Company and an ill-equipped and ill-prepared
expedition numbering 2,500 was led by Captain Kinlock in 1767 AD. The expedition
was a disaster; the Gorkhali army easily overpowered those who had not succumb
to malaria or desperation. This ineffectual British force provided the Gorkhali
with a few firearms to arms themselves and make effective use of them.

Victory and occupation of the Kathmandu Valley by Prithvi Narayan Shah, starting
with the Battle of Kirtipur, resulted in the shift of the capital of his kingdom
from Gorkha to Kathmandu, and subsequently the empire that he and his
descendants built came to be known as Nepal. Also, the invasion of the wealthy
Kathmandu Valley provided the Gorkha army with economic support for furthering
their martial ambitions throughout the region.

# First Campaign

## British plan of operation

![Officer and Private, 40th Regiment of Foot, 1815](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/0/08/Officer_and_Private%2C_40th_Foot%2C_1815.jpg)

The initial British campaign was an attack on two fronts across a frontier of
more than 1,500 kilometres (930 mi), from the Sutlej to the Koshi. In the
eastern front, Major-General Bennet Marley and Major-General John Sullivan Wood
led their respective columns across the Tarai towards the heart of the valley of
Kathmandu. Major-General Rollo Gillespie and Colonel David Ochterlony commanded
columns in the western front. These columns were faced with the Nepalese army
under the command of Amar Singh Thapa. About the beginning of October, 1814, the
British troops began to move towards different depots; and the army was soon
after formed into four divisions, one at Benares, one at Meeruth, one at
Dinapur, and one at Ludhiana.

The first division, at Dinapur, being the largest, was commanded by
Major-General Marley, and was intended to seize the pass at Makwanpur, between
Gunduk and Bagmati, the key to Nepal, and to push forward to Kathmandu: thus at
once carrying the war into the heart of the enemy's country. This force
consisted of 8,000 men, including his Majesty's 24th foot of 907 strong; there
was a train attached to it of four 18-pounders, eight 6- and 3-pounders, and
fourteen mortars and howitzers.

The second division, at Benares, under command of Major-General Wood, having
subsequently removed to Gorakhpur, was meant to enter the hills by the
Bhootnuill pass, and, turning to the eastward, to penetrate the hilly districts,
towards Kathmandu, and cooperate with the first division, while its success
would have divided the enemy's country and force into two parts, cutting off all
the troops in Kumaon and Garhwal from communication with the capital. Its force
consisted of his Majesty's 17th foot, 950 strong, and about 3000 infantry,
totaling 4,494 men; it had a train of seven 6- and 3-pounders, and four mortars
and howitzers.

The third division, was formed at Meerut, under Major-General Gillespie; and it
was purposed to march directly to the Dehra Dun; and having reduced the forts in
that valley, to move, as might be deemed expedient, to the eastward, to recover
Srinagar from the troops of Amar Singh Thapa; or to the westward, to gain the
post of Nahan, the chief town of Sirmaur, where Ranjore Singh Thapa held the
government for his father, Amar Singh; and so sweep on towards the Sutlej, in
order to cut off that chief from the rest, and thus to reduce him to terms. This
division originally consisted of his Majesty's 53d, which with artillery and a
few dismounted dragoons, made up about one thousand Europeans, and two thousand
five hundred native infantry, totaling 3,513 men.

The fourth, or north-western division, at Ludhiana, was to operate in the hilly
country lying near the Sutlej: it assembled under Brigadier-General Ochterlony,
and was destined to advance against the strong and extensive cluster of posts
held by Amar Singh and the troops under his immediate orders at and surrounding
Irkee, a considerable town of Kahlur, and to cooperate with the forces under
Major-General Gillespie, moving downwards among the hills, when these positions
should be forced, surrounding Amar Singh, and driving him upon that army. The
force consisted exclusively of native infantry and artillery, and amounted to
5,993 men; it had a train of two 18-pounder, ten 6-pounders, and four mortars
and howitzers.

Lastly, beyond the Koshi River eastward, Major Latter was furnished with two
thousand men, including his district battalion, for the defence of the Poornea
frontier. This officer was desired to open a communication with the Raja of
Sikkim, and to give him every assistance and encouragement to expel the Gorkhas
from the eastern hills, short of an actual advance of troops for the purpose.
Captain Barré Latter was sent to the border with Poornea and after a successful
mission to confine the Gorkhas to their own territory concluded the
Anglo-Sikkimese Treaty of Titalia confirming the Raja's dominions, although the
latter lost territory from his border to the Tamur River.

The Commander-in-Chief of the British forces was Lord Moira. All four divisions
composed mostly of Indian Sepoys. Ochterlony's army was the only division
without a single British battalion. In conclusion, the Gorkhali Army defeated
the British on three fronts consisting the middle and the east whereas lost the
remaining two fronts in the west.

![A Gorkhali warrior.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anglo-Nepalese_War#/media/File:Gurkha_soldier_1815.jpg)

## Battle of Makwanpur Gadhi

Major General Marley was tasked to occupy Hetauda and capture the fortresses of
Hariharpur and Makawanpur before proceeding to Kathmandu. His frontage of
advance lay between Rapati river and Bagmati river. After additional
reinforcements, he had 12,000 troops for his offensive against the Makawanpur
and Hariharpur axis. A big attack base was established but Major General Marley
showed reluctance to take risks against the Nepalese. Some skirmishes had
already started taking place. Similarly, Major General George Wood, sometimes
known as the Tiger of the British Indian Army, proved exceedingly cautious
against the hard charging Nepalese.

Colonel Ranabir Singh Thapa, brother of Bhimsen Thapa, was to be the Sector
Commander of Makawanpur-Hariharpur axis. He was given a very large fortress and
about 4,000 troops with old rifles and a few pieces of cannons. But the British
could not move forward from the border. Colonel Ranabir Singh Thapa had been
trying to lure the enemies to his selected killing area. But Major General Wood
would not venture forward from Bara Gadhi and he eventually fell back to Betiya.

## Battle of Jitgadh

With the help of an ousted Palpali king, Major General Wood planned to march on
Siuraj, Jit Gadhi and Nuwakot with a view to bypass the Butwal defenses,
flushing out minor opposition on the axis, and assault Palpa from a less guarded
flank. Nepalese Colonel Ujir Singh Thapa had deployed his 1200 troops in many
defensive positions including Jit Gadhi, Nuwakot Gadhi and Kathe Gadhi. The
troops under Colonel Ujir were very disciplined and he himself was a dedicated
and able commander. He was famous for exploiting advantage in men, material,
natural resources and well versed in mountain tactics. The British advance took
place on 22nd Poush1871 BS (January 1814 AD) to Jit Gadh. While they were
advancing to this fortress, crossing the Tinau River, the Nepalese troops opened
fire from the fortress. Another of the attackers' columns was advancing to
capture Tansen Bazar. Here too, Nepalese spoiling attacks forced the General to
fall back to Gorakhpur. About 70 Nepalese lost their lives in Nuwakot pakhe
Gadhi. Meanwhile, more than 300 of the enemy perished.

## Battle of Hariharpur Gadhi

No special military action had taken place in Hariharpur Gadhi fortress in the
first campaign. Major General Bannet Marley and Major General George Wood had
not been able to advance for an offensive against Makawanpur and Hariharpur
Gadhi fortresses.

## Battle of Nalapani

The Battle of Nalapani was the first battle of Anglo-Nepalese War. The battle
took place around the Nalapani fort, near Dehradun, which was placed under siege
by the British between 31 October and 30 November 1814. The fort's garrison was
commanded by Captain Balbhadra Kunwar, while Major-General Rollo Gillespie, who
had previously fought at the Battle of Java, was in charge of the attacking
British troops. Gillespie was killed on the first day of the siege while
rallying his men and despite considerable odds, both in terms of numbers and
firepower, Balbhadra and his 600-strong garrison, which also consisted of brave
women who reportedly shielded the bullets and cannonballs with their bodies,
successfully held out against more than 5,000 British troops for over a month.
Fraser recorded the situation in the following terms:

> The determined resolution of the small party which held this small post for
> more than a month, against so comparatively large a force, must surely wring
> admiration from every voice, especially when the horrors of the latter portion
> of this time are considered; the dismal spectacle of their slaughtered
> comrades, the sufferings of their women and children thus immured with
> themselves, and the hopelessness of relief, which destroyed any other motive
> for their obstinate defence they made, than that resulting from a high sense
> of duty, supported by unsubdued courage. This, and a generous spirit of
> courtesy towards their enemy, certainly marked the character of the garrison
> of Kalunga, during the period of its siege.

> Whatever the nature of the Ghoorkhas may have been found in other quarters,
> there was here no cruelty to wounded or to prisoners; no poisoned arrows were
> used; no wells or waters were poisoned; no rancorous spirit of revenge seemed
> to animate them: they fought us in fair conflict, like men; and, in intervals
> of actual combat, showed us a liberal courtesy worthy of a more enlightened
> people.

> So far from insulting the bodies of the dead and wounded, they permitted them
> to lie untouched, till carried away; and none were stripped, as is too
> universally the case

After two costly and unsuccessful attempts to seize the fort by direct attack,
the British changed their approach and sought to force the garrison to surrender
by cutting off the fort's external water supply. Having suffered three days of
thirst, on the last day of the siege, Balbhadra, refusing to surrender, led the
70 surviving members of the garrison in a charge against the besieging force.
Fighting their way out of the fort, the survivors escaped into the nearby hills.
The battle set the tone for the rest of the Anglo-Nepalese War, and a number of
later engagements, including one at Jaithak, unfolded in a similar way.

The experience at Nalapani so discomforted the British that Lord Hastings so far
varied his plan of operations as to forego the detachment of a part of this
division to occupy Gurhwal. He accordingly instructed Colonel Mawbey to leave a
few men in a strong position for the occupation of the Doon and to carry his
undivided army against Amar Singh's son, Colonel Ranajor Singh Thapa, who was
with about 2300 elite of the Gurkha army, at Nahan. It was further intended to
reinforce the division considerably; and the command was handed over to
Major-General Martindell. In the meantime Colonel Mawbey had led back the
division through the Keree pass, leaving Colonel Carpenter posted at Kalsee, at
the north western extremity of the Doon. This station commanded the passes of
the Jumna on the main line of communication between the western and eastern
portions of the Gurkha territory, and thus was well chosen for procuring
intelligence.

## Battle of Jaithak

Major General Martindale now joined the force and took over command. He occupied
the town of Nahan on 27 December, and started his attack on the fort of Jaithak.
The fort had a garrison of 2000 men under the command of Ranajor Singh Thapa,
the son of the Amar Singh Thapa. The first assault ended in disaster, with the
Nepalese successfully warding off the British offensive. The second managed to
cut off the water supply to the fort, but could not capture it mainly because of
the exhausted state of the troops and shortage of ammunition. Martindale lost
heart and ordered a withdrawal. Jaithak was eventually captured much later in
the war, when Ochterlony had taken over the command.

A single day of battle at Jaithak cost the British over three hundred men dead
and wounded and cooled Martindell's ardour for battle. For over a month and a
half, he refused to take any further initiative against the Nepalese army. Thus
by mid-February, of the four British commanders the Nepalese army had faced till
that time, Gillespie was dead, Marley had deserted, Wood was harassed into
inactivity, and Martindell was practically incapacitated by over-cautiousness.
It set the scene for Octorloney to soon show his mettle and change the course of
the war.

## Second Battle of Malaon and Jaithak

The second battle of Malaon and Jaithak cut the Nepalese lines of communication
between Central Nepal and the Far West. It also sealed the fate of Kazi Amar
Singh Thapa at Malaon and Ranajor Singh Thapa at Jaithak. At Malaon,
Major-General Ochterlony had moved with extreme care summoning reinforcements
and heavy guns from Delhi until his total attack force consisted of over ten
thousand men well-equipped with heavy cannon.

Kazi Amar Singh Thapa's position in the Malaon Hills depended on Bilaspur in the
lowlands for his food supplies, and the nature of the hills forced him to spread
his forces very thinly in an attempt to defend every vantage point. Ochterlony
cut off the supply of food from Bilaspur and then turned his attention to the
intricate network of defensive posts that were designed to withstand any frontal
assault. Although rear fortifications supported these posts, none could
withstand a long cannonade by heavy guns. Because Ochterlony had sufficient
troops to attack and overwhelm several positions simultaneously, the thinly
spread Nepalese defences could be dangerously divided.

Ochterlony chose his target, a point on the ridge, and then proceeded to move
slowly, consolidating each position that he took, and allowing the pioneers time
to build roads so that the heavy guns could be moved forward to support each
attack. After a series of carefully planned and executed moves, he succeeded in
establishing a position on the crest of Deothal, not even over a thousand yards
from Kazi Amar Singh Thapa's main fort at Malaon. The old warrior Bhakti Thapa
valiantly led assault after assault on this position, but he died during battle
and the position did not fall. Immensely impressed by Bhakti's sustained courage
against impossible odds, the British made the well appreciated and honourable
gesture of returning his body with full military honours. The British
superiority in numbers made it inevitable that they would be able to establish
themselves and their heavy guns on a vantage point within range of Ranajor
Singh's fortifications, sooner or later.

Both Kazi Amar Singh Thapa and Ranajor Singh Thapa were thus hemmed in and
looking down the barrels of the British guns when Bam Shah's letter arrived,
announcing the fall of Almora. Although the old commander was still reluctant to
surrender, Kazi Amar Singh Thapa at last saw the hopelessness of the situation
and, compelled by circumstances and the British guns, surrendered with honour
for both himself and Ranajor Singh. The Nepalese positions in the Far West lost
control to the British on 15 May 1815.

![One of the Commanders of the Gurkha troops during the Nepal Wars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_of_Nalapani#/media/File:Gurkha_Commander_Nepal_War.jpg)

# Second Campaign

The outstretched Nepalese army was defeated on the Western front i.e. Garhwal
and Kumaon area. Ochterlony had finally outfoxed Bada Kaji Amar Singh Thapa. He
was the only successful British Commander in the first Nepal-Company campaign.
Not surprisingly Lord Moira appointed him as the Main Operational Commander in
the second offensive on the Bharatpur-Makawanpur-Hariharpur front with 17,000
strong invasion force, but again, most of them were Indian sepoys.

The British had given a 15-day ultimatum to Nepal to ratify a treaty on 28
November. But the points of the treaty were very difficult for the Nepalese to
ratify quickly. The delay provided the excuse for the British to commence the
second military campaign against the kingdom. Colonel Bhaktawar Singh Thapa,
another brother of Bhimsen Thapa, had been appointed as Sector Commander for
defensive battles for the area from Bijayapur to Sindhuli Gadhi in the first
campaign. In this second campaign, Bada Kaji Amarsingh Thapa[note 3]was detailed
as Sector Commander for Sindhuli Gadhi and the eastern front. Colonel Bhaktawar
Singh Thapa was manning his headquarters at Makwanpur Gadhi. Major General David
Ochterlony, was the overall commander against Nepal with a massive 17,000
British troops to assault the fronts including Upardang Gadhi, Sinchyang Gadhi,
Kandrang Gadhi, Makawanpur Gadhi and Hariharpur Gadhi.

During the campaign in February 1816, Ochterlony decided to take a very
infrequently used pass through the mountains. The failure there would have been
a disaster for British. But the successful passage would allow British to
directly emerge and attack the Nepalese's rear. Colonel Kelly and Colonel
O’Hollorah followed the river Bagmati to reach Hariharpur Gadhi. Some of the
heads of villagers were bribed for sensitive information about the defensive
positions in the area of Hariharpur Gadhi. The information seriously compromised
the Nepalese defences. Secret routes would have given the enemy advantage even
if they were able to get only a battalion through. But the British were able to
advance with more than a brigade's strength. Colonel Kelly and Colonel
O’Hollorah launched their attack from two different directions on 29 February.
The Nepalese troops were eventually driven back from Hariharpur Gadhi after a
big battle. Kaji Ranjore Singh Thapa withdrew to Sindhuli Gadhi to link up with
Bada Kaji Amar Singh Thapa. The British troops did not approach Sindhuli Gadhi
and fell back to Makawanpur by the end of March 1816.

The situation became very critical for Nepal and the British which eventually
led to a treaty. Major General David Ochterlony settled down to receive the
treaty, signed by Kathmandu Durbar through Chandra Sekhar Upadhyaya, Pandit
Gajaraj Mishra and finally though Bhaktawar Singh Thapa. Two days later the
ratified treaty was handed over to the British in Makawanpur. The war ended with
the Treaty of Sugauli, which has been considered as an unequal treaty which led
to Nepal losing its one-third territory. The river Mechi became the new Eastern
border and the Mahakali the Western boundary of Nepal.

# Aftermath

## The treaty of Sugauli

The Treaty of Sugauli was ratified on 4 March 1816. As per the treaty, Nepal
lost all Sikkim (including Darjeeling), the territories of Kumaon and Garhwal
and Western Terai. The Mechi River became the new eastern border and the
Mahakali river the western boundary of the kingdom. The British East India
Company would pay 200,000 rupees annually to compensate for the loss of income
from the Terai region. The British set up Resident. The fear of having a British
Resident in Kathmandu ultimately proved to be unfounded, as the rulers of Nepal
managed to isolate the Resident to such an extent as to be in virtual house
arrest.

The Terai lands, however, proved difficult for the British to govern and some of
them were returned to the kingdom later in 1816 and the annual payments
accordingly abolished. However even after the conclusion of the Anglo-Nepalese
War, the border issue between the two states was not yet settled. The boundary
between Nepal and Oudh was not finally adjusted until 1830; and that between
Nepal and the British territories remained as a matter of discussion between the
two Governments for several years later.

The British never had the intention to destroy either the existence or the
independence of a state which was usefully interposed between them and the
dependencies of China. Lord Hastings had given up his plan to dismember Nepal
from fear of antagonising China – whose vassal Nepal in theory was. In 1815,
while British forces were campaigning in far western Nepal, a high-ranking
Manchu official advanced with a large military force from China to Lhasa; and
the following year, after the Anglo-Nepalese treaty had been signed, the Chinese
army moved south again, right up to Nepal's frontier. The Nepalese panicked,
because memories were still vivid of the Chinese invasion of 1792, and there was
a flurry of urgent diplomatic activity. Hastings sent mollifying assurances to
the imperial authorities, and ordered the British Resident, newly arrived in
Kathmandu, to pack his bags and be ready to leave at once if the Chinese invaded
again. Due to the forced treaty under compulsion and duress, experts on
international treaty view that Nepal might not have had the capability to
recognize the Sugauli as a sound treaty.

![Bhimsen Thapa's troops, right, at Segauli, 1816, with India Pattern Brown Bess muskets and chupi bayonets.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anglo-Nepalese_War#/media/File:Sugauli_treaty.jpg)

# About the Author

Ayush Rana (aka cheesecake) a Front End Engineer and Graphics Designer from
Kathmandu, Nepal loves travelling,trekking, writing softwares and sports. He is
currently working as a Contractor Software Engineer at Dryhurst Corp, Illinois.
