# ðŸ’Š Cocaine

Also known as coke is a stimulatory drug mostly used for recreational use and
commonly snorted but can be smoked and/or injected.

The effects begin within seconds or minutes and only lasts from a few minutes to
a couple hours, there are medical uses for cocaine as well as in surgery.

Cocaine is highly addictive with a significant risk of dependency. The first
thing you know that you don't want nothing else but coke and it is also rarely
sold on the street, this pure form and commonly mixed with local anesthetics
among and many of their substances which is a large reason why it is so common
that users report a feeling of being physically tired when using the drug when
in fact pure cocaine actually produces a very energetic effect.

Feeling pleasure motivates us to repeat behaviors, when the reward circuit is
activated, each individual cell on the circuit release electrical and chemical
signals, the small gap between the sending and receiving cells is called the
synapse.

When dopamine binds to the exterior of the dopamine receptor, this causes
proteins attached to the interior part of the receptors to carry the signal
onward within the cell. Some dopamine molecules re-enter the sending cell via
dopamine transporters and can be re-released.

When a reward is encountered the presynaptic cell releases a larger amount of
dopamine in a sudden burst. Dopamine transporters will then quickly remove the
excess. Dopamine surges in response to natural rewards help the brain learn and
adapt to a complex world.

However, drugs are able to hijack this process contributing to unhealthy
behaviors and consequences. When someone first uses cocaine the drug quickly
enters the brain where it blocks the transporters on the presynaptic cell since
dopamine cannot re-enter the presynaptic cell it begins to accumulate in the
synapse, where it can reach abnormally high levels and remain there much longer
than usual.

The postsynaptic cell becomes hyper activated which produces a feeling of
euphoria, this creates an incredibly powerful association between cocaine and
pleasure making a person want to repeat the experience of taking the drug.

Vast amounts of cocaine come from South America because of the abundance of coca
plants that grow in the mountains and jungle areas.

The drug stimulates the brain in the same way that a real achievement might do,
like winning a college football game. This feeling is the main reason people who
get addicted want to get high on cocaine again and again.

But each high requires a little more of the drug to get the same effect. Users
also often feel superior to other people and so the effect of the cocaine high
can have a particular appeal to people with low self-esteem, or who are in
situations where a greater level of confidence is desirable, such as performers.

And talking of performers, there have been scores of famous addicts over the
years. Many were musicians and few lived to tell the tale.

Cocaine use has been prevalent with the rich and famous but deaths are less
common from cocaine use alone. In 2012, Whitney Houston was found submerged in a
filled bathtub at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Los Angeles. According to the
autopsy report, she died of a combination of a possible heart attack and cocaine
use.

And then in August 2014 the world was shocked when comedian Robin Williams
hanged himself in his California home. There has been much debate around the
reasons for Williamâ€™s death and though most relate it to his ongoing battle with
depression, his widow Susan told people magazine it was a debilitating brain
disease called diffuse Lewy body dementia or dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB)
that took hold of Williams and probably led him to suicide.

Whether depression or brain disease, Robin Williams was known to have a
long-standing issue with both alcohol and cocaine.

## What about the cost of these drugs?

As they are on the black-market drug prices are not affected by inflation, like
the usual products we purchase. But supply and demand can still have an
influence on the price. Tom Wainwright, the former Economist reporter in Mexico
City and author of Narconomics, told Business Insider, "The price of cocaine in
the United States has hardly moved.

In the past couple of decades, it's been about $150 per pure gram, and that's
barely budged, so there's a puzzle there." Wainwright went on to explain that
the static nature of cocaine prices can likely be explained by the hold cartels
and other traffickers have over the cocaine market at its origins.

They have the ability to dictate prices to producers.

## About the Author

Mujahid Al-Majali, a 29-year-old former air force soldier and an economic
development and business specialist, also does translation and copywriting.
Loves long drives, chill music and old school movies. A nicotine addict and a
huge fan of Jack Danielâ€™s whiskey. Owned multiple businesses in Amman and
southern of Jordan PRE-COVID and now focusing on translation and copywriting
part of my experience through Upwork.

## Resources

- <https://www.drugabuse.gov/publications/drugfacts/cocaine>
- <https://www.webmd.com/mental-health/addiction/cocaine-use-and-its-effects>
- <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2851032/>
