# ðŸ†“ GNU Freedom & Team Building

## Collaboration with Discord Servers, GitHub, Free Education Gamified

My good friend `Max` and mainly myself promote `free` education, and we heavily
use both Discord and GitHub for mass collaboration. We have a few GitHub
Organizations with over 100+ team members. And in our two main Discord Servers
we have over 100+ members.

We find younger developers come from the Windows 10 environment where paid
software tools are common. Paid software is extremely expensive and even more so
for users in poorer countries where GDP is lower. When software first came on
the scene it was in the form of a disk. Over the years many tools arose to copy
disks and get around copyright. These days software licensing is much more
advanced and is usually paid monthly or annually and most software is
downloaded.

[GNU](https://www.gnu.org/) is a Unix-like operating system and Open Source is
more about collaboration than code. GNU is completely free software and the GNU
OS kernel `Hurd` started before the Linux kernel. GNU Hurd was in `1984`. And
Linux was in 1991.

And therefore the concept of heavily collaborating is really learning and
sharing and free education. Everyone has the right to free education. In some of
the most recent years `Octoverse` reports mainly students and mentors have been
joining GitHub.

These days there are many alternatives to paid software and both Linux and GNU
have a plethora of tools that are all free.

## Popular GNU Software

- [GNU Emacs](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/)
- [GNU Image Manipulation Program (GIMP)](https://www.gimp.org/)
- [GNU Midnight Commander is a visual file manager](https://midnight-commander.org/)
- [GNU nano is a small editor for on the terminal](https://www.nano-editor.org/)
- [GNU Screen is a screen manager with VT100/ANSI terminal emulation](https://www.gnu.org/software/screen/)

## Other Software

- [GNU Aspell is the standard spell checker for the GNU operating system](http://aspell.net/)
