# ðŸŽ‰ Ibiza

Ibiza, Catalan Eivissa, island, Balearic Islands provincia (province) and
comunidad autÃ³noma (autonomous community), Spain. Ibiza is the third largest of
the Balearic Islands. It lies in the western Mediterranean 50 miles (80 km)
southwest of Majorca.

The island was a strategic point of great importance in ancient times and was
inhabited by the Phoenicians and Carthaginians.

It has some notable archaeological sites, relics from which are housed in the
Archaeological Museum at Ibiza city also called La Vila. The islandâ€™s hilly
relief, culminating in La Atalaya (1,558 feet [475 meters]), is truncated in the
central northern coast to form a costa brava (rugged coast) with cliffs
exceeding 800 feet (240 meters) and penetrated by calas (small coves).

There are several irrigated lowlands, and the hillsides are intensively
terraced. Agriculture is mainly of a subsistence nature, but almonds, dried
figs, and apricots are exported. Salt produced by the evaporation of seawater
has been the main export for centuries. Fish and charcoal surplus to local needs
are also sent to the mainland.

Usually known for its lively nightlife. This island has plenty of history and
culture as well as beautiful sandy beaches!

Ibiza is a beautiful island known for its gorgeous sunsets and awesome parties,
it is a popular destination for all ages and there are a few things to be aware
of when planning a holiday here.

great deals to Ibiza only tend to happen in the off-season so if you are
visiting during peak season you are likely to save money by booking your flight
hotel and transport separately.

now let's talk about the best time to travel to Ibiza!

June and August is the perfect time for parties and clubs, the weather is warm
and the DJs are all in town

May, June, and September are warm but cheaper times to visit as they are outside
the school holidays however, you won't always get to see the big DJ if you visit
before august.

so, like we've said already Ibiza is known for its DJs but there is more to the
island than that so here are just a few things to do in Ibiza

firstly, the old town is also known as dalton villa Ibiza's old town is now an
interesting UNESCO heritage site, walk through the picturesque narrow
cobblestone streets and visit the charming restaurants, cafes and gorgeous
cathedral.

also, spend some time at the many beaches, many offer gorgeous viewpoints and
you can even find secluded clear waters in some of the quieter areas on the
island also don't forget to check out the hippie market. the market runs every
Saturday from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.

let's talk about getting around Ibiza.

now getting the bus in Ibiza is the cheapest way to get around the island,
another way to get around Ibiza is by getting a bike you can rent mopeds and
scooters for as little as 15 euros a day ideal for taking some day trips you can
also catch the aqua bus ferry boat you can get this from Ibiza town to some of
the many beaches around the island.

Never underestimate the wonders of renting a holiday villa in Ibiza, you can
choose from a selection of different villas and apartments on various websites!
of course, this is much more expensive than having a hotel in Ibiza but it is a
great way to spend your vacation.

note that it is illegal to drink alcohol on the streets so be sensible when
walking from bar to bar also another thing to note is that Ibiza is expensive,
so you will want to take advantage of the happy hours each bar offers and when
you are heading to those bars and clubs you don't really need to think about the
dress code unlike other major party destinations in the world Ibiza really
doesn't tend to have much of a dress code

anything really does go!

- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I-R2B0-SeX0>

## About the Author

Mujahid Al-Majali, a 29-year-old former air force soldier and an economic
development and business specialist, also does translation and copywriting.
Loves long drives, chill music and old school movies. A nicotine addict and a
huge fan of Jack Danielâ€™s whiskey. Owned multiple businesses in Amman and
southern of Jordan PRE-COVID and now focusing on translation and copywriting
part of my experience through Upwork.
