# ðŸŽ‡ Most-important WordPress plugins for your Website

WordPress plugins are the software that can be used to add features to your
WordPress website. But there are lots of plugins available and we cannot use
every one of them for our website. So I am here to share some of the important
plugins which you should use for your website regardless of the niche. Here is
the list of each plugin and its functionality:

## 1. Yoast SEO:

It is termed the number 1 WordPress SEO plugin as it is used by millions of
websites to gain a high rank in search engines. It contains a free version as
well as paid version. In the free version Yoast SEO provides basic features like
showing tags, categories, readability scores and it also decreases the loading
time of your website. In the premium version, it provides automatic suggestions
for interlinking, keyphrases, and it also gives insight on which the blog
focuses.

## 2. Elementor:

Elementor is one of the most used WordPress plugins. It helps you to create your
designs and effects also with just one click. So it eases the work to an extent
as it includes more than 150 templates in it. Elementor gives many versions with
its free version in the WordPress directory but there are additional features
through its paid version.

## 3. WPForms:

WPForms is a WordPress plugin used to create different types of contact forms by
just using drag and drop. WPForms is a user-friendly, easy and productive tool.
It can create fully responsive contact forms so there will not be any problem on
different devices of different sizes. The created forms are optimized for server
performance so they will have only a positive impact on the search engine.

## 4.UpdraftPlus:

This WordPress plugin helps you to backup and restore all the data. Since
hacking attacks are increasing day by day on websites, therefore, backing up the
files is very important. Any harm caused to the website can decrease traffic and
increase loss at an exponential rate.

So these were some of the much-needed WordPress plugins for your website. I hope
they were useful to you.
