# ðŸ’° Las Vegas

Situated in the United States in the western state of Nevada. Rising like an
oasis from the Mojave Desert, this city of over 1,000,000 people enjoys 300 days
of sunshine a year.

If ever there was a city that shouldn't be, it's Las Vegas. Starting life as a
windswept watering hole on the Pioneer Trail, this is a city that continually
beat the odds. Over the decades, Las Vegas grew into a kinda neon Camelot, whose
casinos and Rat Pack style has become almost legendary; but if your ideas about
Las Vegas look like an old Super 8 movie, prepare to be blown away.

And I mean really blown away.

This is not just a city. The Las Vegas of the 21st century is like visiting
another planet - A Pleasure Planet!

It's a total escapist fantasy. Everyone is here for a good time, from Grandma
Joe to movie stars!

Whatever you want, you can have it here.

Looking for a taste of classic Vegas, Daddy O? Head Downtown to Fremont Street
and into a world of old school cocktail lounges, piano bars and classic casinos.

Okay. Now it's time to hit The Strip.

If everything's big in Vegas, it's a hundred times bigger here. We're not
talking casinos anymore, we're talkin' mythical cities - whole worlds geared
around you having the time of your life.

Whatever mood floats your boat, you'll find it here. Fancy three days of
unbelievable indulgence?

Say "buongiorno" to the Bellagio and her incredible dancing fountains. Step back
in time at the Luxor or Caesars Palace. This is what Ancient Egypt and Rome
might have been like if they'd discovered electricity and cocktails (or happy
hours) a little sooner.

Feeling more tropically inclined? Kick off those heels and feel the sand between
your toes at The Mirage and Mandalay Bay resorts. The resorts on the Strip are
so vast and self-contained, it's possible to land in one and not step outside
again for the rest of your stay.

But you will step out and explore the unique themes of at least a few others,
sampling the incredible shows, dining, and shopping experiences each one has to
offer.

If this neon paradise still ain't enough for you, Mother Nature has a few
surprises of her own.

That is, if you can find your way out!

The Valley of Fire is just 50 miles out of town, and the Grand Canyon is a
half-a-day drive away.

But as nighttime descends, Vegas calls like an incredible cluster of neon jewels
under the desert sky.

Las Vegas dazzles like no other city.

She's here to remind us that we're here on Earth, not for a long time, but for a
good time!

And Las Vegas will be the best time you ever had. Take a tour here:

- <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y_f6i0LynXg>

## About the Author

Mujahid Al-Majali, a 29-year-old former air force soldier and an economic
development and business specialist, also does translation and copywriting.
Loves long drives, chill music and old school movies. A nicotine addict and a
huge fan of Jack Danielâ€™s whiskey. Owned multiple businesses in Amman and
southern of Jordan PRE-COVID and now focusing on translation and copywriting
part of my experience through Upwork.
