# üíª PC Maintenance

Virtually everything I‚Äôve learned about PC maintenance has been through trial
and error over a period of 15 years. We had a PC before 2006, but that year was
the beginning of our dependence on a computer for most all of our important
business dealings.

There are some different categories of apps that need to be considered for a
complete PC maintenance suite. I should mention that any category of app one
picks should be thoroughly researched to decide which is best for you.

It seems obvious in our current ‚Äúclimate‚Äù that ‚Äúmalware‚Äù protection is of
paramount importance. For that I use a paid ‚Äúreal-time‚Äù solution that has
excellent ratings and includes a browser add-on. I also have a secondary app
that I can use for scans at any time. Be sure that any solution you use is
ALWAYS up-to-date. Many anti-virus apps are mutually incompatible, so be
careful. Also consider a VPN (Virtual Private Network), especially a browser
based VPN, so you can keep your browsing history, and your location hidden from
the websites you use and from your ISP. It is none of their business. Research
VPNs!

I also think an operating system maintenance tool is quite important. Whether
one uses Windows, Mac or any of several other OS‚Äôs, there is a tool, paid or
unpaid for keeping that OS tuned up. Each OS has its own built-in tools but
identifying, finding and using them can be pretty confusing. The tool sets built
by others can save a great deal of confusion by keeping the individual tools
easy to find, use and understand. I use my favorite on an almost daily basis,
and it keeps my PC running smoothly, while taking little of my time.

Backup is a pretty huge consideration, and My fav has saved my PC MANY times
from all kinds of major and minor disasters. Research this category thoroughly
and definitely invest in a backup program, and an external hard drive or other
external storage. ‚ÄúJust do it!‚Äù

Organizing tools can be very useful as well. Because I‚Äôm a graphic designer, and
I just keep adding more and more client‚Äôs designs and more and more tools and
even personal fun and interesting articles and ‚Äúwhatnot‚Äù, I have one little
monstrously handy app that can find almost anything and everything (hint) that
is on my PC.

There are also tools for updating all your programs and notifying you when you
need updates. I have one for my drivers, and my main OS maintenance program
tells me when any other programs need updates. Keep in mind that you can set
most of your programs to update or to notify you, but not all of them will do
this. I also have a program that does an excellent job of UNinstalling other
programs completely, along with the other files that are leftover after
uninstalling something. Calendars are another very useful category. Almost every
PC has multiple calendars available, but some are better than others. In
summary, BE CAREFUL and get that BACKUP program (and external storage) and use
it OFTEN!

![PC Maintenance](_static/images/pc-maintenance/pc-maintenance.png)

## About The Author

Harley Armentrout is a happy husband and father, former silversmith, aerospace
electronics prototype assembler, test, calibration & repair technician, also
writing test procedures at [BallAerospace](https://www.ball.com/aerospace). Then
21 years in the gaming industry, in a range of positions, culminated as a Gaming
Inspector, observing and reporting on rules violations, safety issues and
criminal activities for the
[Yavapai Prescott Indian Tribe](https://buckyscasino.com/). After ‚Äúretiring‚Äù
Harley taught himself a few graphic design skills and he works as a freelance
designer.
