# ⚖️ Sheriff Rick Grimes is an Idiot

Sheriff Rick Grimes, the lead character, is a fuckin moron. Millions of fans are
on #TeamGrimes and cheering for Rick.

It says something disturbing that these idiots think he’s a hero. the person may
be a walking, talking mass of empty rhetoric, bogus moral posturing, flawed
logic, and cognitive errors.

Granted, it’s always possible that during this season Sheriff Grimes will redeem
himself. Hope springs eternal. My comments here only apply to his leadership
during the primary four seasons.

But as I watched them, I spotted that you simply could learn a lot from “The
Walking Dead. If you wish to succeed, just ask yourself, “What would Rick Grimes
do?” - afterward you go and do the entire opposite.

Don’t believe me?

Here are some great lessons.

‘Busy’ doesn't mean ‘productive’ Rick Grimes is busy. Busy. Always so damn busy!

He’s leading a team bursting into an abandoned house in search of food—any food,
including pet food. Crash! He’s leading his hapless followers into a darkened
corridor to flush out the zombies. Zoom! They’re demolishing the highway to
hide.

The only problem: plenty of the activity is wasted…and a number of it's
downright counterproductive.

For instance, dark, enclosed spaces are precisely the places you would like to
avoid. The undead just likes to lurk within the dark then leap out and bite you,
costing you a limb, or even your life.

All this action is great TV—and terrible management. Sheriff Grimes isn't alone
in his error. Too many folks confuse mere activity with acting. There aren't any
prizes for being busy.

Understand your mission “I’m keeping us safe,” boasts Rick Grimes, while people
drop around him like flies. “I’m keeping us together,” he adds. But to what end?

Rick Grimes lurches between objectives and bounces between crises.

He offers no discernible moral or system. One minute he's fastidiously
respecting property rights. The other minute he's torturing a prisoner for no
obvious reason.

No wonder such a lot of around him ask why they must even bother staying alive.

Don’t overlook the plain If you’re searching for a lost child, shouldn’t you
look inside that big barn across the field?

If you’re in an exceedingly big government scientific center jam-choked with
dangerous biohazardous materials, and there’s a large red punch in the wall
counting right down to zero hours, shouldn’t you ask the one remaining scientist
within the place—a man who seems to be ominously, serenely dead along with his
maker—what the fuck is happening?

The devil is within the details, some people say. Really? the small print has
its place—but go searching and it’s amazing what percentage of people and
projects and firms fail because people neglected the few really big, really
simple, really obvious decisions. Often, they’re too swamped by the main points
to seem at the picture. Bad choice.

Learn from the experience Rick Grimes and his followers got too complacent at
the farm. They didn’t take enough steps to safeguard themselves. They didn’t dig
ditches, erect fortifications, or maybe pack a go-bag. Bad move. When a herd of
zombies suddenly attacked, they'd escape, empty-handed. “We won’t make the
identical mistakes again,” vowed Sheriff Grimes. Soon afterward they moved into
an abandoned prison. where they didn’t dig ditches, erect fortifications, or
pack a go-bag. You’ll be amazed at what happened next. So were they. Wall Street
traders have a good old saying, as a money manager and financial blogger Barry
Ritholtz likes to remind us: “It’s alright to be wrong; it's not alright to stay
wrong.” The key division in life isn’t between folks that make mistakes and
other people who don’t, it’s between those that learn from them and people who
are too stubborn, foolish, or proud to try and do so.

## About the Author

Mujahid Al-Majali, a 29-year-old former air force soldier and an economic
development and business specialist, also does translation and copywriting.
Loves long drives, chill music and old school movies. A nicotine addict and a
huge fan of Jack Daniel’s whiskey. Owned multiple businesses in Amman and
southern of Jordan PRE-COVID and now focusing on translation and copywriting
part of my experience through Upwork.
