
# THE PAWN

![the-pawn](_static/images/the-pawn/image1.jpg)

Has someone ever referred to you as a pawn? That\'s fine since we\'re
all pawns, including the one who labeled you a pawn. This is something
you should know right now!<br><br>

Everyone was once a pawn, including Michelle Obama, Ellen, Oprah,
Beyonc√©, Joe Biden, Dangote, and you!<br><br>

A pawn is a chess piece that is unprotected, unnoticed, and extremely
vulnerable. Because of its evident restrictions, it is regarded as the
board\'s weakest piece.<br><br>

On a chess board, pawns make up the majority of the pieces. Take a
careful look at yourself; did you just discover you\'re a member of
society\'s majority? Have you ever become disoriented in a crowd?
That\'s OK.<br><br>

Every pawn is designed to defend an official, but no official is
required to defend the pawn until it chooses to do so. You are built to
defend someone or something by default, yet nothing defends you, or does
it? Continue to go forward.<br><br>

The majority of the time, the pawns are utilized as bait. How many times
have you been exploited to buy something for someone and not been
appreciated for it? You\'re not on your own.<br><br>

They (pawns) capture diagonally, which means that in order to survive,
you must learn to shift directions and not become obsessed on a single
object. Accept and embrace change.<br><br>

Blocking pawns is simple. To be honest, anyone can stop you from
progressing. Anybody. This includes the individual you dismiss, ignore,
or dislike. Continue to be humble.<br><br>

These fascinating chess pieces accomplish a one-of-a-kind capture
between them known as \"En Passant.\" When dealing with others with
similar brains, social standing, financial resources, and situations,
knowing your boundaries is a good idea. Please do not trespass.

You, like the pawn, are probably moaning and nagging about all the
limits that surround you. There is a restriction of one or two movements
ahead (only at first movement). Limitation fades away.<br><br>

Pawns never go backwards in the game. It\'s not in your nature to
withdraw or submit. You have a lovely, bright, and promising future
ahead of you. Never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever,
ever<br><br>

Once a pawn has successfully reached an opponent\'s back rank, they must
be promoted to any official of their choice. At the conclusion of the
day, you will automatically receive the victory crown. When you
successfully complete that race, you must undoubtedly be known, admired,
feared, and invincible. Because you can no longer be stomped, fooled, or
controlled, this process is unavoidable. You\'ve done it!!!<br><br>

This post is dedicated to the homeless African-American, the single
parent, the LGBT boy, the sad mind, the Ukrainian Refugee, and the girl
who doesn\'t belong. You are the subject of this work.<br><br>

## About the Author

Samuel Obande
