# ðŸ‘‘ TATA STEEL CHESS WIJK AAN ZEE 2022

The Tata Steel Chess Tournament is an annual chess tournament held in
January starting the academic calendar of elite chess tournaments. It is
held in Wijk Aan zee, the Netherlands and is considered as \'Wimbledon
of Chess\' in which top Grandmasters from across the world are invited
which fight in 13 rounds of single round robin format. There are
different events arranged in Wijk Aan zee during first month of the year
viz; Tata steel chess festival, Amateur chess tournament, online
tournaments, etc.

Recently Tata steel chess hosted its 84th edition of prestigious
tournament in 2022 GM Anish Giri as tournament ambassador. World
Champion GM Magnus Carlsen emerged as a winner of 84th edition with one
round to spare and 1.5 points ahead of the equally strong field with
undefeated and 6wins in 13 rounds of which one win was by forfeit
against Russian GM Daniil Dubov who was tested covid positive and have
to end his tournament with 3 rounds remaining. GM Shakhriyar
Mamedyarovand GM Richard Rapport were tied on 2nd spot with 8 points
each. The challengers section of this edition was won by 18-year-old
Indian sensation GM Arjun Erigaisi whose performance was class apart in
challengers\' section and booked a spot in next year\'s Masters section.

GM Magnus Carlsen won his 8th title in Wijk Ann zee in fashion by
beating top GM Fabiano Caruana with black pieces in 12th round with
right exchange sacrifice and converted endgame in his style. \"I think
there have been a lot of good moments here in this tournament. I think I
have had nine winning positions and I converted five of them which is
probably one or two too little, considering what I had. There are a lot
of positives, especially compared to the last couple of years where I
didn\'t play well and frankly didn\'t get many chances. So, the huge
amount of chances that I got, it\'s of course partly due to my opponents
playing a bit weaker than usual but l think I also managed to create
more of them than normal. Obviously, the total score +5 is great and
more than enough for tournament victory but there is always this thought
that it could have been even better, that will have to be another time.
I am really satisfied in general.\" - Magnus Carlsen said on his
performance at 84th Tata Steel Chess 2022 Masters.

30<sup>th</sup>, January 2022
